docs: Refactor bootstrapping.md to make it easier to understand (#38090)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/bootstrapping.md

> # Launching an app with a root NgModule

Reviewer: A title for consideration per Dave and our conversation earlier today in the stand up:

Overview of the `AppModule`

Reviewer: Btw, @rockument69, Dave did say that this isn't required but a suggestion since the doc is conceptual rather than task-based.

Author: I'll go along with this, now that the reader doesn't actually do anything but generate the project and generate the components, etc. in the CLI. The CLI has the info, and setup.md introduces it when creating MyApp.

Every Angular app needs at least one [NgModule](guide/glossary#ngmodule "Definition of NgModule"), known as the _root NgModule_, to launch the app.

> The root NgModule for an app is so named because it can include child NgModules in a hierarchy of any depth.

Reviewer 2: In this sentence should we just substitute `NgModule` with `module`? I think actually going further down, I would just call it `module` or `module`'s (where it makes sense). It seems obvious that we are talking about the `ngModule` from here on.

Author: I would rather not do that, given the fact that "module" is not as precise and could be confusing in the context of Javascript "modules". I want to reinforce the concept of NgModule as Angular-specific.

## Generate the root NgModule

Use the Angular CLI command `ng new` to generate the root NgModule for a new app project.
By convention, this NgModule is named `AppModule` in the `app.module.ts` file, and contains the following code:

<code-example path="ngmodules/src/app/app.module.1.ts" header="src/app/app.module.ts (default AppModule)">
// @NgModule decorator with its metadata
</code-example>

The root NgModule code begins with `import` statements to import other modules, and to import the entry component.
It then identifies `AppModule` as an `NgModule` class by using the `@NgModule` [decorator](guide/glossary#decorator--decoration "Definition of decorator").
`@NgModule` takes a metadata object that tells Angular how to compile and launch the app.
The metadata includes the following arrays:

* [`declarations`](#declarations): Which [components](guide/glossary#component "Definition of component"), [directives](guide/glossary#directive "Definition of directive"), and [pipes](guide/glossary#pipe "Definition of pipe)") belong to the NgModule.
  These classes are called [declarables](guide/glossary#declarable "Definition of a declarable").

>   The new app project currently has only one component, called `AppComponent`.

Author: Rather than using "default" I changed it to "The CLI-generated initial `AppModule`..."

* [`imports`](#imports): Other NgModules you are importing into this NgModule, so that you can use their declarables.
  The newly generated root NgModule imports [`BrowserModule`](api/platform-browser/BrowserModule "BrowserModule NgModule") in order to use browser-specific services such as [DOM](https://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Core/introduction.html "Definition of Document Object Model") rendering, sanitization, and location.

* [`providers`](#providers-array): Providers of services that components in other NgModules can use.
  There are no providers in a newly generated root NgModule.

* [`bootstrap`](#bootstrap-array): The [entry component](guide/entry-components "Specifying an entry component") that Angular creates and inserts into the `index.html` host web page, thereby bootstrapping the app.
  This entry component, `AppComponent`, appears in both the `declarations` and the `bootstrap` arrays.

The rest of this topic describes how you would use each array of the metadata in the root NgModule.

> For step-by-step instructions on creating your own NgModules and importing them into your app, see [Creating a new NgModule](guide/feature-modules "Creating a new NgModule"). 

Author: The problem is, the title change for feature-modules.md is ready to merge: PR [37948](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/37948). When that happens, this link title is incorrect and misleading. Also, we are trying to rid ourselves of the "feature" part of module, and of using "module" for "NgModule".

> For step-by-step instructions on creating your own NgModules and importing them into your app, see [Creating a new NgModule](guide/feature-modules "Creating a new NgModule"). 

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> For a complete description of the NgModule metadata properties, see [Using the NgModule metadata](guide/ngmodule-api "Using the NgModule metadata").

Author: Fixed in next commit.

{@a declarations}

## The declarations array

The root NgModule's `declarations` array tells Angular which [declarables](guide/glossary#declarable "Definition of a declarable") ([components](guide/glossary#component "Definition of component"), [directives](guide/glossary#directive "Definition of directive"), and [pipes](guide/glossary#pipe "Definition of pipe)")) belong to the NgModule.
All of the declarables for an NgModule must be in the NgModule's `declarations` array.

### Generate a new declarable

If you use a component, directive, or pipe without declaring it, Angular returns an error message.
As you create more components, directives, and pipes for this NgModule, they must be added to `declarations` in this NgModule.

> Fortunately the Angular CLI does this for you.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

  ],
```

The declarables for an NgModule belong only to that NgModule.
Declare a declarable in _only one_ NgModule—don't repeat the declarable in another NgModule.

> To save time and keep your app lean, declare it only once, and export it to share it with other NgModules.

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

> The other NgModules can import it, as described in the next section.

Author: I think "as described" is better usage. Note the [Text Ranch comparison](https://textranch.com/82078/as-described-above/or/as-above-described/). I had to change the sentence anyway to replace "it" with "them" after making the previous edit.

The compiler emits an error if you try to declare the same declarable in more than one NgModule.

### Export and import declarables

The declarables are visible within the NgModule that declares them, but invisible to components in a different NgModule.

> To use any declarable (component, directive, or pipe) in components in another NgModule, you must _export_ it from this NgModule, and _import_ it into the other NgModule.

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> For example, the following code shows how directive `ItemDirective` can be exported from the generated file `item.directive.ts`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following code shows how the directive `ItemDirective` can be exported from the generated file `item.directive.ts`:
```

Author: Thanks for catching this. I should have put this into active voice, so I also made that change. This is now: 

> For example, the following code shows how you would export the directive `ItemDirective` from the generated file `item.directive.ts`

> For example, the following code shows how you would export the directive `ItemDirective` from the generated file `item.directive.ts`:

Author: Fixed as follows:

> The declarables are visible within the NgModule that declares them, but invisible to components in a different NgModule.
> To use any declarable in components in another NgModule, you must _export_ the class and _import_ it into the other NgModule.
> 
> For example, the following code shows how you would export the directive `ItemDirective` from the generated file `item.directive.ts`:
> 
> <code-example path="bootstrapping/src/app/item.directive.ts" region="directive" header="src/app/item.directive.ts"></code-example>
> 
> If you need the declarable `ItemDirective` in another NgModule, open the other NgModule in  `app.module.ts` and _import_ the declarable you need:
> 
> <code-example path="bootstrapping/src/app/app.module.ts" region="directive-import" header="src/app/app.module.ts"></code-example>

<code-example path="bootstrapping/src/app/item.directive.ts" region="directive" header="src/app/item.directive.ts"></code-example>

> If you need the declarable (`ItemDirective`) in another NgModule, open the other NgModule (`app.module.ts`) and _import_ the declarable you need:

Author: Fixed as shown in the above comment.

<code-example path="bootstrapping/src/app/app.module.ts" region="directive-import" header="src/app/app.module.ts"></code-example>

Also add the imported directive to the `@NgModule` `declarations` array in `app.module.ts`, so that you can use `ItemDirective` in a component of the NgModule:

<code-example path="bootstrapping/src/app/app.module.ts" region="declarations" header="src/app/app.module.ts"></code-example>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

For more about directives, see [Attribute directives](guide/attribute-directives "Attribute directives") and [Structural directives](guide/structural-directives "Structural directives").

</div>

Use the same export and import technique for sharing [pipes](guide/pipes "Transforming Data Using Pipes") and [components](guide/architecture-components "Introduction to components and templates") among your app's NgModules.

<div class="alert is-important">

> If you write code inside the root NgModule `AppModule` constructor to throw an error, that error may not appear in the console.

Author: This is from a GitHub issue 29211, [this comment](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/29211#issuecomment-651398995) in the issue. It seems to be specific to AppModule.

Move the code from the `AppModule` constructor to the `AppComponent` constructor.

</div>

{@a imports}

> ## The imports array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The `imports` array
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> The NgModule's `imports` array, which appears exclusively in the `@NgModule` metadata object, tells Angular which _other_ NgModules are needed in order for this NgModule to function properly.

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> The other NgModules must export the needed components, directives, or pipes that this NgModule needs.

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> The `imports` array accepts only `@NgModule` references.

Author: To prevent confusion, changed this to "The `imports` array accepts only NgModule references."

> The root NgModule, as generated automatically by the `ng new` command, includes the [`BrowserModule` NgModule](api/platform-browser/BrowserModule "BrowserModule NgModule") in its `imports` array because a component template in the root NgModule (`AppComponent`) needs to use `BrowserModule` components, directives, or pipes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a CLI generated app, the `AppModule` imports the [`BrowserModule` NgModule](api/platform-browser/BrowserModule "BrowserModule NgModule") for browser specific services such as DOM rendering, sanitization, and location.
```

Author: Fixed in the next commit.

{@a providers-array}

> ## The providers array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The `providers` array
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> The `providers` array in the newly generated root NgModule tells Angular which services the app needs.

Reviewer: I'd delete this whole sentence.
```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> If you add services to the root NgModule's `providers` array, the services become available app-wide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `AppModule` `providers` array to make services your app needs available app-wide.
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> You can scope service usage when [creating other NgModules](guide/feature-modules "Creating a new NgModule") and [lazy-loading the NgModules](guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules "Lazy-loading an NgModule").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can scope service visibility when creating [Feature modules](guide/feature-modules "Feature modules") and [Lazy-loading NgModules](guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules "Lazy-loading NgModules").
```

Same note here about titles of the pages.
Changed to "visibility" because it's more specific than "usage". My understanding is that the injector trees influence visibility rather than usability.

Author: OK thanks, fixed in the next commit.

> To learn more about service providers, see [Providing dependencies](guide/providers "Providing dependencies for an NgModule").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about service providers, see [Providing dependencies in NgModules](guide/providers "Providing dependencies in NgModules").
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

{@a bootstrap-array}

## The bootstrap array

> The app starts by launching the [entry component](guide/entry-components "Entry components") in the root NgModule's `bootstrap` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Angular app starts by launching the [entry component](guide/entry-components "Entry components") in the `AppModule` `bootstrap` array.
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> The CLI-generated root NgModule designates `AppComponent` as this entry component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default `entryComponent` in the `AppModule` `bootstrap` array is `AppComponent`.
```

Author: Using "The CLI-generated `AppModule` designates `AppComponent` as this entry component."

Angular creates each component that appears in the `bootstrap` array and inserts it into the browser DOM.
Each bootstrapped component is the base of its own tree of components.
Inserting a bootstrapped component usually triggers a cascade of component creations that fill out that tree.
While you can put more than one component tree on a host web page, most apps use only one component tree and bootstrap a single entry component.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: I think Dave likes "What's next".
```suggestion
## What's next
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> 

Reviewer: FYI, I think we're heading toward this format as a goal for the What's next sections:
[https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/38006/files#diff-d782eca8a8394cef696247cc89ecd7beR72](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/38006/files#diff-d782eca8a8394cef696247cc89ecd7beR72)

Here's what it looks like in the browser (the header fix is in that PR above, but you see how it's laid out): [https://angular.io/guide/testing#more-info-on-testing](https://angular.io/guide/testing#more-info-on-testing)

Author: Thanks! This is fine, except that I prefer colons to em dashes in the list, as we talked about earlier.

* To learn about frequently used Angular NgModules and how to import them into your app, see [Frequently-used NgModules](guide/frequent-ngmodules "Frequently-used NgModules").

> * For guidance on how to use NgModules for organizing different areas of your code, see [Guidelines for creating NgModules](guide/module-types "Guidelines for creating NgModules").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For guidance on how to use NgModules for organizing different areas of your code, see [Types of feature modules](guide/module-types "Types of feature modules").
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> * For a complete description of the NgModule metadata properties, see [Using the NgModule metadata](guide/ngmodule-api "Using the NgModule metadata").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a complete description of the NgModule metadata properties, see [NgModule API](guide/ngmodule-api "NgModule API").
```
It just seems like the link is broken without the same title.

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> * For step-by-step instructions on creating an NgModule and importing it into your app, see [Creating a new NgModule](guide/feature-modules "Creating a new NgModule").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For step-by-step instructions on creating an NgModule and importing it into your app, see [Feature modules](guide/feature-modules "Feature modules").
```

Author: Fixed in next commit.

> * To learn how to use shared modules to organize and streamline your code, see [Sharing NgModules in an app](guide/sharing-ngmodules "Sharing NgModules in an app").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To learn how to use shared modules to organize and streamline your code, see [Sharing modules](guide/sharing-ngmodules "Sharing modules").
```

Author: Removed -- too many "next" steps for this Concept Guide. If this were a Task Guide on launching, I would reformat in the newer format and consider using a numbered list.

> * To learn about loading NgModules eagerly when the app starts, or lazy-loading NgModules asynchronously by the router, see [Lazy-loading an NgModule](guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules "Lazy-loading an NgModule").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To learn about loading NgModules eagerly when the app starts, or lazy-loading NgModules asynchronously by the router, see [Lazy-loading feature modules](guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules "Lazy-loading feature modules").
```

Author: Removed -- too many "next" steps for this Concept Guide. If this were a Task Guide on launching, I would reformat in the newer format and consider using a numbered list.

> * To understand how to provide a service or other dependency for your app, see [Providing dependencies for an NgModule](guide/providers "Providing dependencies for an NgModule").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To understand how to provide a service or other dependency for your app, see [Providing dependencies in modules](guide/providers "Providing dependencies in modules").
```

Author: Removed -- too many "next" steps (see previous comment).

> * To learn how to create a singleton service to use in NgModules, see [Making a service a singleton](guide/singleton-services "Making a service a singleton").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To learn how to create a singleton service to use in NgModules, see [Singleton Services](guide/singleton-services "Singleton Services").
```

Author: Removed -- too many "next" steps (see previous comments).
